So, we've seen that limited example,
but how do we know which query parameters to strip out?
First thing that we could do is filter our pages report with a filter for question mark.
I'm in another Google Analytics view that has the query parameter fragmentation issue.
I'm going to filter the pages report for question mark.
Even though this field is normally interpreted as a regular expression,
it does recognize the question mark when we filter just for question mark.
So, we start to get an idea of the query parameters that are fragmenting our URLs.
If we drop down to 100 rows in the report,
we'll get a better idea.
So, we see the same pages that are being
fragmented setup score question by query parameters,
and these are the pages that we need to consolidate.
Another important resource for determining
which query parameters to strip out is Google Search Console.
If you don't have access to Google Search Console for your Google Analytics property,
speak to your SEO team and they can add you to Google Search Console.
Otherwise, there's a separate verification process that
you can go through to get validated for Google Search Console.
It's a good idea to have Google Search Console
access for every Google Analytics property that you're also accessing.
Google Analytics and Google Search Console are different but complementary tools.
If we're in Google Search Console and we go to the URL parameters report.
This report is related to search engine indexing;
it's not related to analytics.
But the same issues that we're addressing for search engine indexing in
Google Search Console parallel
the fragmentation that we have to address in Google Analytics.
So, different tools, different contexts search engine indexing on one side,
analytics on the other side.
But the issues that we have to address are the same,
how do we consolidate our URLs?
In this report, where we see representative URL,
that means that the Google bot thinks
that the query parameters do not determine different page content,
so the Google bot is just going to pull one representative URL.
So, this means that we should probably strip out that parameter from Google Analytics.
Where we see every URL,
that means that the Google bot thinks that that query
parameter does determine different page content.
So, we probably should not strip it out of Google Analytics and let Google bot decide.
We'll have to determine on our own if we're going to
strip out those query parameters or not.
In any case, after you've consulted Google Search Console,
make sure that you confer with your developers.
Your developers should be able to look at the list of query parameters and help determine
which do and do not determine
different page content and which can therefore be stripped out.
So, determining which query parameters to strip out is really the hard part.
Once we do that,
the setting for stripping the query parameters out is very straight forward.
Just to show how to do that and to show how drastic the consolidation is,
we see that in this view for this time period,
we have 12,000 URL variations.
I'm in the view settings of the main view where
the query parameter exclusions have already been applied.
These have already been tested out.
The name of this field can be a little bit misleading
because we're not actually excluding any information.
We're stripping off the query parameters and consolidating the page views.
This is not an exclude filter.
In the real sense,
this is a consolidation filter.
So, we're not losing any data,
we're just consolidating the page dimension.
If we now go to the pages report where these
exclude URL query parameters have been applied for awhile,
we'll see a huge difference.
If we scroll down, we see that we have consolidated nearly 12,000 variations to just 48,
obviously much easier to deal with.
What if the fragmentation isn't actually occurring in a query parameter?
What if instead of ID equals 123 and ID equals 456/ the URL fragmentation look like this,
right within the path.
In this case, we could use a search and replace filter to consolidate just to welcome.
We'll click into filters, "Add filter",
"strip digits from welcome page", custom.
We can use a Search and Replace request URI.
We'll start with welcome/,
and if we wanted to make it simple,
we could say match any character and one or more occurrences of any character.
Or if we wanted to make it a little tighter,
let's say if we knew we had only three digits that we were dealing with,
we could use the regular expression notation for
any number character backslash d and we could use a quantifier,
in this case three,
and add an end a string anchor.
So, that would be our match and our replacement string could just be welcome.
Make sure to consolidate your URLs,
your analysis will benefit greatly.